A program is a set of instructions for performing a particular task. The computer interprets the instructions as 1's and 0's. A program can be wriiten as assembly language
as well as high-level language. This written program is known as source program and it is converted into machine language, which is called an object program. A translator 
is required for such a translation.Program translator translates source code of programming language into machine language-instruction code. Generally, computer programs
are written in languages like COBOL, C, BASIC and ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE, which should be translated into machine language before execution.

Translators are as follows:
Assembler
Compiler
Interpreter

Assembler: An assembler translates the symbolic codes of programs of an assembly language into machine language instructions. The symbolic language is translated to the 
           machine code in the ratio of one is to one symbolic instructions to one machine code instructions. Such types of languages are called low-level languages. 
           The assembler programs translate the low-level language to the machine code. The translation job is performed either manually or with a program called assembler.
           
Compiler: Compilers are the translators, which translate all the instructions of the program into  machine  codes,  which  can  be  used  again  and again.The program, 
          which is to be translated, is called the source program and after translation the object code is generated. The source program is input to the compiler. 
          The object code is output for the secondary storage device. The entire program will be read by the compiler first and generates the object code. However,
          in interpreter each line is executed and object code is provided.

Interpreter: Interpreters also come in the group of translators. It helps the user to execute the source program with a few differences as compared to compilers. 
             The source program is just like English statements in both interpreters and compilers. The interpreter generates object codes for the source program. 
             Interpreter reads the program line by line, whereas in compiler the entire program is read by the compiler, which then generates the object codes.
             Interpreter directly executes the program from its source code. 
