Pointer is a special data-type in C and it is widely used by programmers. Most of the computer language learners feel that the pointer is a puzzling topic and very difficult 
to understand. However, the pointer enables fast and straightforward execution of a program. With pointers, memory is used most efficiently. C gives more importance to pointers. 
Hence, it is important to know the operation and applications of pointers. Pointers are used as a tool in C and if you fail to understand it, you will be losing the power of C.

In C, variables are used to hold data values during the execution a program. Every variable when declared occupies certain memory location/s. For example, integer-type variable 
takes two bytes of memory, character type one byte and float type four. With pointers, one can manipulate memory addresses. It is possible to access and display the address of 
a memory location of a variable using the ‘&’ operator. Memory is arranged in a series of bytes. These series of bytes are numbered from zero onwards. The number specified to 
a cell is known as the memory address. Pointer variable stores the memory address of any type of variable. The pointer variable and normal variable should be of the same type. 
The pointer is denoted by an asterisk (*) symbol.

A byte is nothing but a combination of eight bits as shown in Figures 9.1 and 9.2. The binary numbers 0 and 1 are known as bits. Each byte in the memory is specified with a 
unique (matchless) memory address. The memory address is an unsigned integer starting from zero to uppermost addressing capacity of the microprocessor. The number of memory 
locations pointed by a pointer depends on the type of pointer. The programmer should not take care and worry about addressing procedure of variables. The compiler knows and 
performs the procedure of a pointer. The pointers are either 16 bits or 32 bits long.

The allocation of memory during a program run time is called the dynamic memory allocation. Such type of memory allocation is essential for data structures and can efficiently
handle it using pointers. Another reason to use pointers is in arrays. Arrays are used to store more values. Actually, the name of array is a pointer. One more reason to use 
pointers is command-line arguments. Command-line arguments are passed to programs and stored in an array of pointers argv[].