Every C program contains a number of building blocks known as functions. Each function of it performs a specific task independently.

1. Include Header File Section: C program depends upon some header files for function definition that are used in the program. 
                                Each header file has extension ‘.h’. The header files are included at the beginning of the program 
                                in the C language. These files should be included using # include directive as given below.
                                Examples-- #include<stdio.h> or #include<conio.h>

2. Global Declaration: This section declares some variables that are used in more than one function. These variables are known as 
                       global variables. This section must be declared outside of all the functions.

3. Function main(): Every program written in C must contain main() and its execution starts at the beginning of this function. 
                    In ASCII C standard, first line of C program from where program execution begins is written as follows.
                    'int main(void)'
                    This is the function definition for main(). Parenthesis followed to main is to tell the user again that
                    main() is a function. The int main(void) is a function that takes no arguments and returns a value of type int.

4. Declaration Part: The declaration part declares the entire local variables that are used in executable part. Local variable scope
                     is limited to that function where the local variables are declared. The initializations of variables can also be
                     done in this section. The initialization means providing initial value to the variables.

5. Executable Part: This part contains the statements following the declaration of the variables. This part contains a set of 
                    statements or a single statement.

6. Function Call: From the main() a user defined function can be invoked by the user as per need/application.

7. User-defined Function: The functions defined by the user are called user-defined functions. These functions are defined 
                          outside the main() function.

8. Body of the Function: The statements enclosed within the body of the function (between opening and closing brace) are 
                         called body of the function.

9. Comments: Comments are not necessary in a program. However, to understand the flow of programs a programmer can insert 
             comments in the program. Comments are to be inserted by the programmer. It is useful for documentation. The 
             clarity of the program can be followed if it is properly documented.
             E.g.- /* comments */